Hey friends, we have a
new sponsor today, and I
want to make sure that
you support them because they
make Hansel minutes possible. Raven
DB, it's a document database
that's non-relational and fully transactional.
It's available for windows and
Linux with official client API
APIs for.net. The JVM go
Ruby, no JS and Python.
Raven DB is designed for
high performance handling tens of
thousands of requests, even on
a single node. Now, Raven
DB is capable of on
the fly optimization, dynamic indexes,
and much more. It has
a fully loaded gooey, which
means it's simpler to operate
and you don't need, you
know, arcane incantations on the
command line. It just works.
It's fast and it's right.
Download your free community edition@ravendb.net.
That's R a V E
N db.net. I hope you
check it out. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
Today. I am talking with
Katy McCaffrey. She is the
engineering lead on Azure sphere.
That's a cool code name.
Is that like a code
name or a thing? No,
this is our official real
name now. Awesome. I like
cool names. I'd hate us
to call it something boring.
Yeah, I'm pretty happy with
the name we got. It's
it's exciting to have it
be public and out there.
It's awesome. So I can
go up and just, you
know, search for Azure sphere
or microsoft.com/azure hyphen sphere. And
it says a solution for
creating highly secured connected MCU
devices, MCU. I had to
go and search for what
that is. Yeah. So an
MCU is a microcontroller unit.
So you can think of
these as really tiny chips
about the size of like
your thumbnail or a fingernail.
And, and we like to
differentiate this. This is basically
smaller than if you think
about in our Duino or
a raspberry PI, usually an
MCU, you can think about
it. If it's something in
your house, it has a
button or a light, or
maybe a really low power
display, like a monochromatic display.
That's probably running an MCU.
Okay. So I've got lots
of raspberry pies, but I
can boot those up into
a desktop and they run
like a, I don't know
what the right word is,
a proper OSTP or a
desktop OS. Like they have
a lot of weight to
them. Yeah. So those are,
those are bigger than microcontrollers
because they're doing more things
they have, you can think
about it, a high level
operating system that has a
user space in it as
well. Ah, the user space.
Okay. But I'm looking for
example, at an Xbox controller
that happens to be on
my desk here that probably
doesn't have an operating system.
It has an operating system
of sorts, but it's not
as fully featured as you
would think of as like
your traditional windows or Linux
or do we know operating
system. So then all these
things that I'm looking at,
they're scattered on my desk
here. I've got a, you
know, USB to SD adapter
and I've got a tiny
link, SIS, a USB wifi
thing. You know, how can
I tell what's an MCU?
Is it have to be
connected or does it have
to have Bluetooth or wifi
to be an MCU? So
MCU is traditionally, don't have
to be connected. And, and
most of them are not,
for instance, there's 9 billion or
9 billion MCUs created every single
year. So that's like a
lot of them they're kind
of in everything like most
appliances in your house have
an MCU. You can think
of MCQs are usually in
anything that has like a
switch or a pump that's
controlled with some code, right?
It's just a very lightweight
computer chip that you can
run sort of simple logic
on to control things. But
now the interesting thing is,
is many of these are
becoming only like 1% of
them now are connected to
the internet, but that's sort
of all changing, right? Everyone
wants to do IOT and
have smart devices and extend
the cloud to the intelligent
edge and bring that into
your home or your workplace
or, or factories and make
that a richer experience where
he gathered more data. Yeah.
And as a, as a
user, not as a developer,
but thinking in terms of
a user, I can say
that I've got all these
devices. As you know, I'm
kind of an early adopter,
I've got light bulbs and
switches and, and you know,
their voice controlled and stuff.
The thing is though, it
all feels very tense. Like
I feel the psychic weight
of these devices pressing on
me because like I bought
this cool light bulb on
Kickstarter. And now that company
has gone out of business,
which means that I now
have this device that has
a little operating system that
has no firmware updates ever.
And like that light bulb
is, it's silly to say
this, but it's stressing me
out. Yeah. Cause it's talking
to the internet. Right. And
so internet connectivity, it's sort
of this two way street
where it provides a lot
of really useful functionality, right?
Like you can do a
lot of cool things with
this light bulb or with,
you know, connected thermostat or
even your refrigerator for instance.
Right. But then we've also
now invited attackers or hackers
into our homes by providing
internet connected devices. And so
they love when things aren't
updated because they can find
an exploit and then use
it forever. Just think of
this as a scenario where
you like come home and
you have, or you have
an email in your inbox
that says, you know, give
me five Bitcoin or I'm
going to melt all the
ice cream in your freezer,
like, right. Like that's sort
of, you know, the world
we're in. And that's a
funny example, but I think
there are real or ones
around like, you know, if
you think about like a
stove, for instance, like a
gas powered stove that you
could remotely turn on and
off like that could be
weaponized because it's connected to
the internet where you could
turn the gas on and
then later a hacker could
remotely light the ignition. Yeah.
Well, I mean, keep in
mind who you're talking to,
I've got an insulin pump
that is ultimately cloud connected,
although there's a couple of
bounces between the pump and
the, and the net. And
there's been a lots of
examples of, you know, episodes
of law and order where
some poor schmuck gets killed
by a hacker cause they
deliver too much insulin. So
I think your point, you
know, these, the need for
security is intense. Yeah. And,
and we really looked in,
so what we designed Azure
sphere to be is from
the ground up, let's think
about security and how we
secure these internet connected devices
that are going to be
prevalent in everywhere. Hmm. That's
interesting because I feel like
the last, you know, five
or 10 years and watching
this as a hobbyist and
getting involved in IOT, I'm
just buying all sorts of
chips that I see from
various vendors from overseas. And
they're all very hobbyist and
fun, but I feel like
if we were going to
go and secure them, we'd
be playing kind of whack-a-mole.
And so you're saying that
Azure sphere is not just
the cloud is not just
the S it's the chip
dos and the cloud all
as one platform. Yes. So
this is sort of like
the first end to end
holistic solution for all of
this. And one of the
things that I think is
super cool about this project
when I joined it about
a year ago, is this
started in Microsoft research and
gala and hunt and crew
basically spent some time looking
at what does it even
mean to have secure connected
devices? Like what properties would
we have to have? Let's
take a step back and
look at it from first
principles and take learnings from,
you know, all of the
learnings from securing windows and
updating windows over, you know,
however many years. And like,
let's look at Xbox, right.
And what learnings can we
get from, you know, 15
years of securing the Xbox.
And so they published a
paper called the seven properties
of highly secured devices. That
list the seven properties that
you have to have that
we believe are fundamental to
providing a secure, secure, connected
device. And then from that
Azure sphere was created to
like in re everything's rebuilt
from the ground up to
fulfill those seven properties. Wow.
And that PDF of course
is still available online. You
can go and search for
it. It's off hangs off
of microsoft.com/slash research. And it
talks about the hardware kind
of the, the root of
trust. They can, nothing is
nothing is secure unless the
hardware and the has, has
crypto at the root level.
Yes. So, and what's cool
about the seven properties is
if you go and look
at them is, you know,
some of them we can
do just in Silicon, like
the root of trust, like
you mentioned, but some of
them, we actually need all
three components, which is Silicon
operating system and cloud. So
one that, that is called
renewable security is like actually
providing updates, which you touched
on earlier. And so we
need Silicon and an operating
system that knows how to
provide updates and then a
cloud service to actually push
those updates out, which is
something that Azure sphere provides.
It's a really, actually a
very, like you think about
reading a paper by a
bunch of PhDs might be
really dull. It's actually quite
a good paper and it's
quite easy to read. And
it says a lot of
things that make you go,
Hmm, like common sense type
stuff. But I like the
way that it phrases, it
says single purpose hardware should
be immune to reuse for
unintended actions. Like this is
a light switch. It should
only switch on my light.
It should not kill my
family. Right. Yes. Would be
an ideal goal For a
light switch. So the idea
being that the, we want
it to do its job
and do its job as
intended. And it kind of
melt into the fabric of
our lives as users, without
all the, like the psychic
weight of my light bulb
stressing me out. That's one
label that I bought on
Kickstarter. Imagine if you're a
big car developer and you've
got now a, you know,
multimillion, multiple millions of cars
out there, or multiple million
refrigerators, that that would be
very stressful. And they're refrigerator
makers like we've seen on
Silicon Valley, people hacking into
appliances. Like that's not their
job to be worrying about
that stuff. Right. And so
Azure sphere is basically sort
of this turnkey solution where
we say, you know, like
here's a, here's a tool,
here's a productivity tool and
a solution basically, where if
you use an Azure sphere
certified Silicon chip, and then
you get, once you buy
the chip, you get licensed
to use the operating system
for 10 years. And then
you also get 10 years
of the security services guarding
that device. And then, so
you just don't have to
worry about it, right? You
could build the application for
your refrigerator or, you know,
whatever you are building and
just think about that. And
then we take care of
the security for you. So
you say that it has
three components, Chipo S and
cloud connectivity. When you say
chip, like I know that
we're in the surface business,
we make, we make computers
now, although I'm sure that
we outsource a lot of
the parts and stuff, are
we suddenly making chips or
where do these chips come
from? Right. So the piece
of Azure sphere, we, you
may have heard me say
certified Azure sphere chips. So
we work with Silicon partners
who actually produce Azure spirit
chips. And what makes it
an Azure sphere chip is
that it has the plutonic
security system is Silicon that
was developed by Microsoft and
that we license royalty free
to these Silicon partners so
that they can then make
these chips. So media tech
is our first partner that
is producing the first chip.
And so you can go
look and see the specs
on their website, but, you
know, device manufacturers and whoever
wants to buy these chips
would actually be buying them
from the Silicon manufacturers. And
there therefore could be many,
many different skews in the
future. I think there are
12 parts Silicon partner's announced
on the website right now.
I see. So I'm going
to ask you a very
ignorant question because I, you
know, I, the most I
ever did in the hardware
space was I made a
clock. I had a bunch
of, a bunch of NAND
Gates. So we we've designed,
or Microsoft is designed the
Silicon in the sense that
they would give or licensed
the plans and say, here's
the layout, here's the Silicon.
And how you lay it
down, like just as I
give you source code, but
you compile it. Yeah. And
we actually give them like
a block. And so there
will be that Pluton, runtime
subsystem on the chip, but
there could also be additional
things like for instance, different
cores and, and some of
it, we do have specs
around, like, we have an
application core and a realtime
core on, on these chips
and we call that across,
over chips. So that's a
requirement, but there's others. There's
other things that go in.
So it might be like
a, it's a, you can
think of it as like
an and some in some
code that I give you.
I got you. I got
ya. And then the one
from media tech, and you
can go up and search
for this. If you'd like,
it's got an arm processor,
it's got two general purpose
ones. It also has a
dedicated wifi subsystem. So it
is connected by it's by
default. Yes. And all the
address here, your certified chips
will be connected by default.
Cool. Now is I'm making
a refrigerator. Do I build
a bunch of stuff that
I know how to build
as a refrigerator manufacturer? And
then there's a, a thumbnail
sized hole in my, in
my board. And that's where
I pop the Azure sphere
in. Yeah. And so that's
up to obviously the device
manufacturer about how they want
to lay out their boards,
but wherever you would put
your chip on your board,
that's, that's where you would
place it. And then you
might, there's a, this is
a whole very complex beast,
right. So yes, you take
our chip, you put it
on the board and then
you could design your own
board from there. So the
whole point is though, that
would be secure. Do we,
are we going to offer
as, as you're going to
offer like, well, this part
secure, cause it's Azure sphere,
but this other stuff around
it that I made when
I did my refrigerator's not
secure because I did it
wrong or I didn't know
what it was. Yeah. So
that's a great question. So
we, part of the operating
system, that's super cool. I
think about the, we call
it a high level operating
system that we built from
the ground up to be
secure has basically an application
sandbox. And so as a
device manufacturer, you would write
your refrigerator app and then
you would put it in
our application sandbox. And so
it's actually a multilayered operating
system. Whereas if you think
of an artist toss that
usually runs on these devices,
it's all like one big
component. And so it's, once
you compromise any of it,
whether it be the application
or the Colonel, the whole
thing is compromised. We actually
have different layers. Like you
could think of in your
traditional kernel, like user space
and like more like the
kernel space and things like
that. So device manufacturers can
run in their application sandbox.
And even if, for instance,
there was a vulnerability that
was discovered in their application,
they could then push an
update over there to fix
that. And the rest of
our operating system would ensure
that that, that application got
updated. Now you said R
toss, R T O S
real time operating system. Yeah.
So that's traditionally what's runs
on microcontroller devices. This is
actually a super old operating
system. It's was built originally
before devices were even connected
to the internet. Right. And
so internet connectivity and security
has sort of been added
on and sort of like
taped, you know, sort of
duct taped on, and these
features have been added, but
there's still vulnerabilities that keep
popping up in that and
things like that. And so
we actually built one from
scratch to go and say,
let's, what would it look
like to devise an operating
system for these small devices
from the ground up? So
that it's purpose built for
security You, well, you've seen
probably online, everyone lose their
minds when the Sphero S
like announcement came out and
there's a whole bunch of
stuff to read about. I've
got dozens and dozens of
pages open. I read the
original, the original PDF about
the characteristics, what need, but
the, the title of the
headline is like Microsoft makes
its own Linux. And I'm
like, this seems a lot
different than what I thought
people think, think is being
made. So why did everyone,
like, I don't know, focus
on that. I mean, I
think so. Yeah. So I'll
address the question is our
operating system, our high level
operating system does run a
custom Linux kernel. It has
sort of four layers, which
is our security monitor, our
custom Linux kernel sort of
like applications that run as
part of the operating system.
And then there's like your
app that runs. And so
the custom Linux kernel, I
think, you know, it's funny.
I feel like every time
I see this, like everyone
forgets that Microsoft has a
long storied history with supporting
Linux, right? Like 40% of
the VMs that run in
Azure are Linux based. But
I think it's just, you
know, maybe some sticker shock
over the history of Microsoft's
careers and having windows versus
Linux and in this sort
of dichotomy folks have in
their heads, but it's really
nothing new. Well, and it
seems like a reasonable thing
to, to choose given the,
the, the size of the
operating system and the modularity
of it, as well as
the ubiquity of Lennox, I
expect people would have code
that would become, would be
more compatible because you're using
Linux as the operating system.
Yeah. And I think, you
know, I don't even know
that it's necessarily a size
issue. Like we've cut down
the Linux kernel. We have
a custom Linux kernel, partly
for security, because right. You
don't want to ship like
a shell on these devices
because you don't need it.
And so that's just a
different attack factor that we're
not exposing. For instance, I
see. So this is not
really an operating system, as
it is a paired down
modified Colonel The, the Linux
bit is the accustom paired
down kernel, and then we
have built an entire operating
system. Right. I see. I
see. And then as, as
open source, is this a
thing that I'm going to
go and learn about and
poke about, or does it
have to be open source?
So we will, we will
basically follow the license, the
GPL two V two licenses.
And so there will be
more information on, on what
as we publish that and
adhere to that license in
the future. That's cool. Hey
folks, I want to take
a moment to thank our
sponsors and remind you that
when you support them, you're
supporting Hansel minutes because they
make this show possible. Innovative
developers help improve the lives
of millions of small businesses
and accountants that use QuickBooks
worldwide. Your app could make
the difference that helps them
work smarter and put more
money in their pocket. Enter
Intuit developer from tech tools
to growing your customer base,
to helping you get funding.
Intuit developer helps your app
go from concept to company,
find out more at intuit.me/code
that's I N T U
I t.me/code. So is this
something that is going to
show up in my light
bulb, or are we thinking
that this is not light
bulb appropriate? So it depends.
Some of this is if
you think about light bulbs
themselves, usually they run very,
very small chips. Like sometimes
you might think if you're
familiar with the arm ecosystem,
it's called like an M
zero. So that's like a
really, really small chip. What
is on the first Azure
sphere? Certified chip is an
M four, which is a
slightly bigger realtime processing core.
And then an a seven,
which is an application level
processor, which is actually more
powerful. And so that's sort
of new to the, the
ecosystem, but usually what's determined.
There is based on the
cost of like, how much
do you want your light
bulb to cost, right. Is
how, how beefy of a
chip we could put in
it. I see. And if
you look at this at
the, at the diagrams online,
there's this whole family tree
of these arm processors from
the tiniest to the, you
know, the ones that went
on raw watches that go
all the way up and
you can run a whole,
a whole computer almost. So
this is the, the, the
ultra low power M zero
is maybe sometime in the
future, but you're starting at
the end for, Well, I
mean, our chip does rent
have a couple or sorry,
MTK chip does have two
and fours on it and
an eight, seven processor. So
it actually has multiple cores.
And so we, while we
realize that we're sort of
not targeting the super, super
low end MCUs in, in
the current skews that are
being built by our Silicon
manufacturers right now, Where do
you see the, the cloud
side then? What is, what
is the thing in the,
in the cloud that supports
these tiny devices? Cause on
the tiny devices they've got,
of course limited, limited everything.
They are limited by the
design, but the cloud is
the exact opposite by design.
It is unlimited and infinite.
Yeah. So what's super cool.
So I'm maybe I'm biased
because I run the cloud
security services. But what I
think is super cool is
it provides a couple of
key features. One of them
is certificate based authentication via
remote device authentication and attestation.
And I'll get into more
what those mean there's renewable
security, which I briefly mentioned
earlier. So you can think
of like providing operating system
updates and a secure pipeline
for device manufacturers to provide
their own updates for their
applications to the devices. And
then the third one is
failure reporting. So these actually
aligned with our seven properties.
So we proactively get information
about the dice device about
when it's crashing and when
like things are failing so
that we can detect potential
attacks that are brewing as
people probe to see usually
a, an attack will be
predicated by, you'll see a
bunch of crashes as people
are trying to probe a
system to try and do
a buffer overflow or whatever
their attack vector is. So
the cloud does sort of
all of this forward you,
I think one of the
cooler ones that was like,
it took a while for
it to sink in. And
then I didn't even realize
this when I first started.
But basically if you think
about default passwords, right? Like
we sort of realized this
is a security industry, passwords
are not great. They're easily
stealable or, or whatever. And
a lot of these IOT
devices come with a default
password. And if you remember
them, or I bought that
attack that happened a little
over over a year ago,
I believe, or two years
ago. Now that was a
D hackers exploiting the fact
that these devices have default
passwords users often don't change
them because like, you might
not even think about this
thing being in your house.
And it's just a pain
to go and change the
default password. And so they
were able to then gain
control of these devices using
just a default password. So
Azure sphere doesn't even have
this attack vector cause we
don't use passwords anywhere on
the device. We issue certificates.
I see. Which is interesting.
Cause it gets to that
point you made at the
beginning, which is let's just
start from first principles. Right?
Right. And so the cloud
security services will basically issue
certificates to every Azure sphere
connected device to say that,
yes, this is its own
device. Like every device gets
its own certificate that uniquely
identifies that device and that
it is running what we
consider to be valid, secure
software. So it's actually doing
not only identity authentication, but
attestation of the fact that
it's running valid software. I
see. So the, the ISO
kind of that built in
isolation means that if a
bad person gets a hold
of something, whether it be
remotely or physically, you really
are compartmentalized. Yeah. I mean,
so for whatever reason, if
you could get a certificate
and run bad software on
one device, you're only getting
a certificate for that single
device. There's no like broad
attack vector here, right? There's
no, there's no skeleton key
certificate for all the systems.
Right. And what's actually super
cool about these certificates is
that you use it to
authenticate to the cloud security
services obviously. And then you
can also then take the
certificate as a device manufacturer
and use it to authenticate
to your device applications. And
that could be in Azure,
which there's like a great
story and path there. But
if for whatever reason you
want to go and use
a different cloud, because maybe
you already have that set
up like AWS or Google,
or you have your own
custom server servers. Like you
can take that certificate and
use that with any service.
When, when I heard, you
know, I've, I've met, we've
hung up before I met
you. And you're always doing
amazing stuff. You worked, you
worked at Microsoft, you worked
on halo, you worked at
Twitter. And then I heard
that you were coming back
to work on this. And,
and I first I was
like, well, it doesn't sound
like, like I think of
you as like the giant
cloud scale person, like when
you went to Twitter, I
was like, Oh, she's going
to go and do stuff
of even larger scale. Like
that's always been your thing.
And now I'm thinking about
these tiny little devices and
I'm like, why are you
doing this? Yeah. So, I
mean, so the devices themselves
are small and the code
that runs on the devices
is small. But when you
think about them in aggregate,
right, like 9 billion MCUs, the
market is 9 billion MCs are
being produced every single year.
You know, even if we
only have a fraction of
them hitting our services, that'll
actually be bigger than anything
I've ever built a in
the past. This is actually
even an even bigger, large
scale challenge for, you know,
for the services I've built
prior to this. I see.
So this is well in
your, the stuff that you
work on, it's a giant,
giant scale. Yes. It's a
giant scale. I still find
that incredibly interesting. And then,
you know, I was also
very enticed by the security
aspect of it. This is
personally like I've been watching
the IOT space for a
long time and I think
it's super cool, but also
realizing that like there, isn't
a great security story around
a lot of the devices
out there currently. Right. And
so I think in order
to enable like, you know,
more device manufacturers and people
to be more productive and
do this safely, there needs
to be a great security
story out there. And so
this sort of aligned with
that interest. So I think
the impact is huge because
we could build things that
we can now trust and
put in our homes. W
can you, maybe this is
a appropriate, maybe it's not,
if you talk about this
thing that you worked on
before distributed sagas and does
that relate to the stuff
that you're doing now? So
we're not using distributed sagas
at currently right now that
doesn't outline it. So for
those listening, who might not
know distributed sagas are a
pattern for doing sort of
long live transactions and distributed
systems, except for we don't
provide, it's not a full
blown, distributed transaction, but it
is a pattern for insurance.
Something either all happens or
doesn't happen in a rollback
strategy. So I I've used
this tribute as August and
halo. I've used them at
Twitter right now. We don't
currently have an implementation in
this stack. That doesn't mean
we wouldn't use it in
the future. I see. Okay.
So sagas would be for
like big giant two phase
commit, huge transact cloud scale
transactions. Yeah. So the, the
example I use a lot
is if you're like booking
on a travel site, for
instance, you might want to
book a car or rental
car or a hotel and
a plane, and those are
all talking to three different
microservices, right. That don't even
have the same storage behind
them probably. And so how
do you ensure that either
you get all three or
if you can't get all
three, you have to like
roll back the operation that
you ensure that the roll
back complete successfully so that
you end up eventually in
the state of you either
hold all the reservations or
holding none of them. I
see. So part of the
big scale stuff that you've
worked on, but not, not
currently specific to anything around
sphere, maybe someone who was
doing business stuff on top
of all of this would
implement something like that, but
not related. Yeah. And I
think as the sphere security
services grow, we might find
a great use case where
building bringing this in makes
a lot of sense When
I'm digging into the seven
properties of highly secure devices,
paper, it's always talking about
defense and depth and compartmentalization
and certificates. You know, I
always brings me back to
that joke that the most
secure device is one that
is not connected to the
internet, but I'm curious, is
it just a constant series
of offs? It's like, well,
you know, we really just
should not be connected at
all at this point. I
mean, you're asking for it
when you put anything on
the internet these days. So
I think, you know, it's
definitely a, anytime you put
something on the internet you
have now opened it up
to being attacked, right. It's
a two way street, I
believe. And we believe with
the seven properties that we
can secure these devices and
respond to any potential tax
as well. It gives us
the idea to say like,
right, we're not naive. We
don't think this will prevent
every single problem in the
future because it's a cat
and mouse game with security.
Right. But it does give
us defense and depth and
compartmentalization and certificate based authentication
and all of these properties
give us the ability to
go in and fix or
update these systems. Yeah. Yeah.
And it also, one of
the things that was interesting
was the idea of failure
reporting that in order to
be secure, a device needs
to be able to talk
to a failure analysis system,
you know, in a timely
manner. Yeah. And so I
think Bailey reporting is really
interesting from the perspective of
us trying to prevent things
in the future and to
detect, detect potential attacks, I
guess, before they happen, it's
a little minority report. Ish,
if you think about it,
but it's a cool idea.
That's an interesting, that's an
interesting point. You can say
that this looks suspicious, right?
It's just like when, when
I was working on banking,
we would have varying levels
of suspicion around something like,
Oh, you logged in, okay,
well it's you? Same IP,
same browser. It's probably fine.
We'll just ask for your
password. Hey, look, now you're
in, you know, you're in
Russia on a wifi, in
a strange hotel with a
new browser, right. This all
added up to varying levels.
And then what we're going
to double challenge or triple
J now you're moving money,
you know, varying levels of
trust. And you can think
about this for developers who
run services. This is sort
of like observability and metrics
of what these devices are
doing, right? Like just like
you would look at a
server and see like, are
you seeing a bunch of
crashes? Something's probably wrong with
the software or about to
go wrong, right? Or like
the calls are becoming more
latent. Like this just gives
us visibility into what's actually
happening in these devices in
the world where a system
that didn't have failure reporting
would have no visibility into
what's going on. Is his
update ability. One of the
things that's part of this,
because I don't want to
have my, my nontechnical spouse
flash the firmware on the
fridge. It's not really. Yes.
So one of the properties
that the cloud services provides
renewable security is for, you
know, for 10 years of
these devices, we will commit
to updating the operating system
and shipping regular updates. And
you don't have to think
about it. It just, you
know, our operating system does
this for you. And then
the device manufacturers can also
ship their own updates, whether
those be security patches, or
for instance, lighting up a
new feature that they want
to give you access to.
I see. And then does
this all plug into the
Azure IOT stuff that like,
I already know how to
do? Yeah. So the, you
can use this easily with
Azure IOT, you would take
that certificate that the security
services issued you and use
that to authenticate to your
Azure IOT hubs so that
you could process the telemetry
you're already. And there's a
whole connected devices set up.
That's very, very easy, you
know, sort of like one,
two button clicks that are,
that's a great experience. So
last question I want to
ask you because I've always
wondered is everyone's talking about
IOT edge, like the edge,
the intelligent edge, the edge.
Do I have no idea
what any of that means?
Why is it on the
edge? What ads are we
on? So yeah, I mean,
so Azure IOT edge is
a super cool product. I
think this edge that we're
talking about and, you know,
it was funny at RSA.
Like a lot of folks
were confused about, about the
Azure branding name. Cause really
this, if you can think
about it, that the cloud
edge is expanding and maybe
that gets a little like
philosophical, right. But if you
think about it, we're, we're
putting like all the data
processing and all the information
and knowledge used to be
like in single data centers
in the cloud. Right. And
now we're reaching out to
the edge and saying, you
know, there's compute running at
the edge and there are
these devices that are collecting
and reporting data at the
edge. And those are really
part of the whole cloud
ecosystem. I see. So if
I've got a thermostat, I
can centralize all of the
information or I can think,
well, this is a much
more powerful device than it
used to be extra little
database of its own. It
can hang on to the
data and I'll go and
get it from the edge.
Okay. That was the date.
I was just trying to
figure out like a, you
know, I've seen ready player
one, and I just want
to understand where the edge
is and how far we're
going to push it. I
think it's an always moving
boundary. Yeah. It's like, do
you want me to draw
a line on your house
where the edges would be
great? Yeah. Like do a
little like purple pen marker.
Here's the edge. Here's the
glove. So if people are
listening, if listeners for the
podcast are like into this,
what do they do? I
mean, I'm looking here, where's
the sign up now? Or
do they have to call
someone to learn about this
if they, if it's perfect
for what they're working on?
Yeah. So we basically announced
at RSA that we are
in private preview. And so
I believe if you go
to the websites, there's a
way to contact us. Or
you can always email Azure
sphere@microsoft.com if you're interested. And
then we've talked about being
more, being in a public
preview sometime later this year.
And then the first devices
that, you know, a device
manufacturer will produce containing an
Azure sphere. Certified chip is
targeted to be on shelves
by the end of the
year. Very cool. This is
great. Thanks so much for
explaining this to me. Awesome.
Thanks for having me, Scott.
All right. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.